To start the program, either double click on the Trolls.jar file, or open up TrollDriver.java in your IDE of choice, and hit run.
Once you start the program, a welcome screen will appear.  This screen will have the title of the game, the authors, and a start button.
To start the game, you must either click on the start button, or hit space on your keyboard.
When you have hit the button, the screen will change to the game board. 
The gameboard screen is where you will play the game, and what will respond to your movement inputs.

You will see many green rectangles on the screen.  These are trolls, and everytime you take a step, they will also take a step.
The Trolls are bloodthirsty, but simple, creatures.  
They will attempt to move towards you via the shortest path, but don't take the other trolls into account.
When two trolls run into each other, they clonk their heads together, and leave a corpse tile.  
This tile is a hazard to both you and the trolls.
If you try to run into a corpse, you will not go anywhere, while the trolls get to move towards you. 
If a troll, or trolls, run into a corpse, they die, and get assimilated into the corpse.

Besides the trolls on the board, you will also see a blue rectangle.  This is you, the player.
By pressing the keys "wasd", you can move the player up, left, down and right.
Sometimes, only horizontal or vertical movement isn't enough, and thus the player can also move diagonally.
To move the player diagonally, press the "qezc" keys.  
q and e are to move northwest and northeast, and z and c are for the southern versions.
In some circumstances, the trolls might seem inescapable, but that's when your final movement option comes into play.  
By hitting "t" you can teleport the player.
This randomly transports the player to any square on the board. 
Be warned as this also includes corpses and trolls which will both kill you if you land on them.
Once you teleport, you must recover your senses, and in this time the trolls may move like you just took a step. 
Finally, if you feel as though you're in a good position, you may press the spacebar to wait one turn, and let the trolls come to you.

The main objective of the game is to manuver cleverly around the board, teleporting when you need to, to evade the trolls, and get the to run into each other or corpses. 
You will win the game once no trolls are alive on the board, and will lose when you run into a troll, or teleport into a troll or corpse.

Once you have either won or lost, you are taken to the endscreen.  
You will see a large message declaring either your glorious victory, or ruinous defeat.
There will also be two buttons, one will let you quit the game, and the other will let you play another round.